In this and the next lecture, I will integrate a graph with an image. To start, lets import
the sketch I have for the end result. I go to: File > Import, and open the sketch. I hold Shift
plus Control, and make the sketch a bit smaller. I call the image: sketch, and lock it. I set
the Opacity to: 25 percent, and the Blend mode to: Multiply. I create a new layer, and call it:
legs. Now I import the image of the soccer player. I call the image: bicycle kick. I
will increase the size of the image, until it roughly fits the sketch outline. As we see with
the end result, I need the legs to be cut out. Normally you dont need the high precision like
the letter we traced in the last lecture. The Node tool in Inkscape lets you trace an image extremely
fast. And the Node tool offers many possibilities, to customize the result when needed. I will hide
the sketch. Before we can utilize the Node tool, I will first place some nodes around the legs using
the Pen tool. I will place points, by roughly following the shape of the legs. As we see,
I do not make any curves. I just place a point, when there is a change in direction. I dont
worry about curves. The Node tool is much faster at creating curves. With the football, I only
click on the outer edges, as we saw in the last lecture. So I only click at the bottom, the left,
and the top of the ball. Where there is some more important detail, I will zoom in a bit, and place
some points. What is chopped off by the straight lines, will be corrected by the Node tool.
So I click there, where there are changes in the direction of the curve. Also for the bottom
of the shoe, I click, pretending my lines are curved, even though they are not. Even
the sharp points of the soccer shoe studs, will be taken care of by the Node tool. When I have
reached the shorts again, I can close the path. To do this, I click again on the first point.
Now I select the Node tool. I will select some nodes that I dont need, by dragging over them.
Then I press: Delete. Now I will match the curves, by simply dragging the lines. I wouldnt do this
to trace letters, but it works extremely fast. I have traced many images in GIMP and Photoshop
in the past, but the Node tool of Inkscape, is probably my favorite tool to trace images. This
way of working, doesnt give the 100% accuracy, that for example is needed when you create a logo.
But for tracing bitmap images, in my opinion, this isnt needed to get good results. As we see,
I have full control over the curve. I drag a line, and can get it any curvature I want. And
if I want to add a point, I simply double-click on a line. So now lets look at some extra features,
that the Node tool provides. I drew the spikes of the bottom shoe, with a single node. If I
find this a bit too pointy, I can easily make them more round. I select the spikes by Shift-clicking
on them. Then I click on the Make selected nodes smooth icon. Now lets have a look at the
other foot. I will drag over the top nodes, and smooth them. It does give me the result I need,
but you can do more. As we see, with a smooth node, the arms are linked. But lets say, I want
to move the arms independently. To do this, click once on the Make selected nodes corner icon.
We see the node changed from a square, to a diamond. The arms are not connected anymore.
And if you want to remove the arms, click on the Make selected nodes corner icon a second time.
I will make the nodes smooth again. If you want the arms of a node to have the same length at all
times, click on Make selected nodes symmetric. If I drag an arm, I see the other arm is mirrored
in the node. Auto-smooth gives special kind of arms, that adjusts themselves when you drag the
node. I will go back to a smooth node, where the arms are linked, but can have their own length.
If you want to create a straight line between two curved nodes, select the nodes. Then click on:
Straighten lines. Now the path between the nodes is straight, and the nodes are locked in their
direction. This locking is to prevent the straight line to curve, when you adjust the handles. And
to go back to a curve, simply drag the line. If you want to give an arm a different direction,
but you dont want to change the length of an arm, hold the Alt key. And to add a point, simply
double-click on a line. As we see, there are many ways to manipulate a curve with the Node tool.
If you dont want to see the arms, deselect the Show Bezier handles icon. And to hide the path
itself, deselect the Show path outline icon. I will delete some nodes. To quickly add nodes,
without having to double-click many times, select two nodes. Then click on Insert new
nodes into selected segments. Each time you click, the amount of added nodes will double.
Now my path is ready. Lets use the path to cut out the legs. I call the path:
legs. I right-click on the path, and choose: Set Clip Group. I drag the image
on the Clip Group folder. I want my image to be duotone, so I will add a blue rectangle.
I click on a blue. I call the rectangle: blue. I set blue to the Color Blend mode. I click on
Fill and Stroke. I can now give the duotone the correct color. I drag the blue a bit more to cyan.
In the next lecture, we will place the bars and the text.