In this lecture, well make a chain icon, using the Shape Builder tool. I right-click on the
canvas, and choose: Document Properties. Behind Orientation, I click on Landscape,
to rotate the document 90 degrees. I click on the Rectangle tool, and drag a rectangle. I will hide
the stroke, by shift-clicking on the red cross. I round the corners. To create a hole, lets try
duplicating the rectangle. I make the duplicate green. I press shift plus Control, and make the
rectangle smaller. We see, the green rectangle doesnt scale proportionally. So I press Ctrl-Z
to undo. Lets try insetting. I press Ctrl-9 a couple of times. At first glance, this looks okay.
So I will select them both, and go to: Path > Difference. Now I go to: View > Display
Mode > Outline. Notice that I assigned Ctrl-Y to toggle between Normal and Outline mode,
as it is in Illustrator. We will look at shortcuts in a later lecture. When I click on the Node tool,
I see the nodes of the inset path are a bit off. To get a perfect path, lets try something
else. I press Ctrl-Y, and Ctrl-Z. I delete the green rectangle. I give the rectangle a stroke,
and increase its width. I set the fill to none. If I press Ctrl-Y, we see we just have a single
line. I go to: Path > Stroke to Path. It looks like nothing happened. But when I press Ctrl-Y,
we see I have outlined the stroke of the path. If I click on the Node tool, and click on the path,
we see the nodes are now perfect. Now that I have changed the stroke to a fill,
I will fill it with orange. I duplicate the chain element, and make it green. I select Snapping,
and drag until it snaps. I select both elements, and click on the Shape Builder tool. When I drag,
I see I get an unwanted connection. So I press on the X, and go to: Path > Fracture. I click on the
Shape Builder tool again. I keep my mouse pressed down, and drag to connect some parts of the right
chain. Then I let go of the mouse. Now I also drag over parts of the other chain. I click on Finish.
Like in Illustrator, you sometimes have to do a little cleaning up. I click on the Node tool,
and look for nodes that are superfluous. If there are any, I select them and press
Delete. I will give the chain a stroke. And I remove the fill. When I scale the icon, I see
the stroke doesnt scale with it. The reason is that proportional stroke scaling is not selected,
which normally is what I want. When I select it, the stroke scales, proportionally with
the scaling. The best solution however, is to outline the stroke as we did before. Regardless
whether stroke scaling is activated, the chain can now be scaled to any size.