In the last lecture, we downloaded Inkscape version 1.2. Inkscape version 1.3 however has
big improvements, like the Shape Builder tool. So I downloaded the latest development version
from the Inkscape website by going to: DOWNLOAD > Latest Development Version. This version may still
have some bugs in it, but I find it already very stable. When you open Inkscape for the first time,
youre welcomed by a quick setup screen. You can do some settings here, but you can also
do that later. I downloaded Inkscape version 1.3, which will soon be the current version.
If you dont want to go through the tabs, you can exit the welcome screen at the top right. And when
you press escape the welcome screen will not show up anymore when you open Inkscape. Now lets look
at how you can customize the user interface. I will do this by showing how I created mine.
At the right I have Fill and Stroke, Layers, Path Effects, and the Swatches panel. To add a panel,
click on the arrow. I can change the order of the panels, and I can drag a panel to another place.
To get more room, I can collapse the panels by clicking on the three dots. And I can get the
panels below more room by dragging the three dots. In the Document Properties I have made the canvas,
called Desk, darker by setting Lightness to: 30. Then I went to: File > Save Template. I called
it A4 dark desk and selected: Set as default template. In the View menu, I hid the Commands Bar
and the Palette colors, that normally show at the bottom. I also prefer to work in Fullscreen mode
to get maximum space in the height. Under Edit > Preferences > Windows, I chose: Remember last
windows geometry. This means that when I change something in my UI, these changes are saved. Here
you can also choose to see the Welcome screen when you start Inkscape. Under Theming I have the High
Contrast Inverse theme, and multicolor icons. You can change the colors of these icons if you want.
And if you have a high resolution screen, under Toolbars you can increase the size of
the icons at the left, and at the top. In the next lecture we will start creating shapes.