We have seen that filters and effects must be rasterized, to be visible in a PDF.
Also, when importing an SVG in Scribus, you will not see the blur effect. Youll see the
original vector shape, but effects like blur are emitted. So artwork often must be rasterized,
to be visible in other programs. The two most used bitmap formats, are PNG and JPEG.
JPEG doesnt support transparency, so transparent areas will be filled in with
white. Also, JPEG uses a lossy compression algorithm, sacrificing image quality.
So PNG is higher quality, and the best choice for everything except photographs. Lets see how to
save this logo as a bitmap. I will save one for the internet, and one for print. What we will see,
is that you always save in pixels. I go to: File > Export. I see, I can save the entire page.
When I click on: Document, I see the area that will be exported, comprises the visible elements.
I only want to export the logo, so I drag over the logo. Then I go to: Selection. Now I see
the export area is confined to the selection. The logo for the website has to be 200 pixels high. So
for Height, I give in: 200. When I press Enter, I see the Width is automatically set to: 175 pixels.
DPI is unrelated to pixel dimensions. Changing the DPI, will also change the amount of pixels.
So I leave DPI as it is. I click on: Export Selected only.
I click on: Select export format, and choose: PNG. At the right are different options.
I prefer Compression on: 9, to get the smallest file size. And Antialias should be on:
2. Antialias on 0 gives ragged edges. Click on the folder icon, to choose a location to save.
Then click on Export. When I open the PNG in GIMP, I see the size is 175 by 200 pixels.
Now lets save the logo for print. For print you also save in pixels. This is because 300 pixels,
is the same as one inch. Lets say, my logo has to be two and a half inches high.
So two and a half, times 300 pixels, is 750 pixels. So for Height, I give in: 750. When
I press tab, Width is automatically calculated, to 657 pixels. I see, the DPI value has also changed.
Again, in this situation, the DPI value is unrelated to the pixel dimensions.
The only time you use the DPI value field, is on the Page tab. This is because a page,
has a concrete dimension, like A4. To export a page for print, you set it to: 300 DPI. Changing
the DPI, changed the pixel dimensions. Now we can see, that an A4, is 2480 by 358 pixels for print.