Lets create this crocodile with simple shapes.
I drew this crocodile in GIMP. I will import this drawing in Inkscape, and vectorize it. I go to:
File > Import. I select the sketch, and click on: Open. I click on: OK. I want to resize the canvas,
to match the size of my drawing. To do this I right-click, and click on Document Properties.
Then I click on the Resize to content icon. I zoom in, by pressing Ctrl and scrolling forward.
And I can pan, by pressing the middle mouse button, and drag. To be able to see both the
drawing and the artwork, I will create a new layer. I click on the Add Layer icon,
and click on Add. I will place the layer below the layer with the drawing, by clicking on the Move
down in the Stack icon. I hold my mouse above layer 1, and click on the square icon. I set the
layer to: Multiply, so I can see the layer below, and I can look through the drawing. I will also
set its Opacity to about 15 percent. And I will lock the layer, so the drawing cant be moved. I
will start by drawing the eyes, which are made of circles. I will create them with the Ellipse tool.
I zoom in on the left eye. I drag, and also hold down the Control key, so I get a perfect circle.
Each shape you draw, can have a fill and a stroke. To give the circle a fill color, I can click on
a color in the Swatches panel. And to give the circle a stroke color, you Shift-click on a color.
Notice, the used fill color swatch, has a dot in it. And the stroke color swatch, is indicated
with a larger circle line. So how do I remove the stroke? I remove the stroke, by Shift-clicking on
the red cross. The red cross now shows the circle line. I also want a slightly different green for
my fill. Although the dot and circle line make it easy to find back the used colors, I would
like to have the used colors at the top, for easy access. To do this, I right click on the swatch,
and choose: Pin Color. Now lets finish the eye. With the Ellipse tool I can make the circle
larger. But I prefer to do this with the Select tool, because then I can drag from every corner.
So I drag a corner, while holding down Control, to keep the circle round. Now I press Ctrl-D,
to duplicate the circle. The duplicate is placed exactly on top of the original.
I make the copy white, by clicking on the white swatch. Now I will make the eye smaller. To scale
the circle from the center, I hold Ctrl plus Shift pressed down while dragging. Although the pupil is
black, to see what I am doing I will temporarily choose gray. The pupil is not round, so now I will
drag from the sides. To make the reflection, I will duplicate the white circle. I hold Ctrl,
and drag it in place. I will now make the pupil black. I press Ctrl and scroll backward, to zoom
out. Lets copy the left eye, and reuse it for the right eye. In the layers panel we see, the eye is
created with four circles. To copy them, and move them together, I will make them a group. I drag
over them, to select them all. I right-click on the selected items, and choose: Group.
In the Layers panel we see, we now have a group. I can open and close the group. And I can give the
group a name, by double-clicking on it. I type: left eye. We see the group behaves as if it is a
single object. So I will press Ctrl-D to duplicate the group. And I will place the copied group over
the other eye. I will call the new group: right eye. Now I reuse the group once again, to make the
nostrils. I press Ctrl-D once again, to duplicate the group. The nostrils dont need the pupils and
highlight, so I can remove these. To do this, I will ungroup the group. I click on the highlight,
and press: Delete. And I also delete the pupil. The nostrils, like the scutes, are brown.
So I click on the white circle, and in my Swatches, I choose a brown. I right-click
on the swatch, and choose: Pin Color. Now I select the two circles, right-click, and choose: Group.
I will scale the nostril down, and place it. I press Ctrl-D, and position the other nostril.
I hold Shift, and click on the other nostril, to select them both. I right-click, and choose:
Group. I now have two groups, placed in a new group. I will call the group: nostrils. For the
belly, I drag another ellipse. I click on a yellow swatch. I right-click on the swatch, and choose:
Pin Color. Finally, I make the mouth with the Ellipse tool. To use the Ellipse tool for scaling,
drag one of the two squares. And to move the circle, drag the cross in the middle. Until now,
we have only used fill colors for our circles. In the Swatches panel I can see that my circle
has no stroke. To add a stroke, I Shift-click on a swatch. I need the stroke to be the same width as
the mouth. I click on the Fill and Stroke tab, and then on: Stroke style. A width of 0.5 millimeter
looks right. To remove the fill color, I click on the red cross. Now the circle only has a stroke.
With the Ellipse tool, I can drag the little circle at the right,
in two ways. If I drag and hold my mouse outside of the circle, I can create pie charts.
And when I drag while holding my mouse inside the circle, I can create arc lines. Behind Cap,
I choose: Round cap, so that the line will be rounded at the edges. I shift-click on the black
swatch, to make the stroke black. In the next lecture, we will look at the rectangle tool.